and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show i'm excited to be joined by
james
murr today james is the founder and ceo
of best practice
international and his best-selling
author of the number one book
on closing sales the perfect close james
warm welcome excited for this one dude
how you doing i'm excited thanks for
having me on
no worries man so we're gonna be talking
all about the secret
to closing deals we're gonna be talking
a bit about your book
and we're gonna be helping everyone
tuning in business owners sales people
essentially how they can get more deals
over the line i'm gonna put you on the
spot though james straight away
is there really a secret to closing
deals in a formula doing it consistently
you know honestly the only thing that
really makes it a secret is that
the common methods that people use for
closing for the last i don't know
50 years or whatever that are all so
dysfunctional and so bad
that people actually end up doing
nothing actually um
50 to 90 of all sales encounters
actually end without any
uh closing or any you know commitment
being asked for whatsoever
50 to 90 percent and that is like a
mind-boggling statistic to me
so if there's a secret it's and if you
ask me why that is by the way
i would just tell you that because we go
out and someone will google what a good
clothes and they listen to that clothes
i think i could never say that
that is totally manipulative and since
99 of these little tactics that are
taught out there manipulative
people just don't do anything right
rather than try to rather than to damage
the relationship with the client
they just don't do anything and so if
there's a secret it's just that
the the common uh myth or knowledge
about what
closing is is really very flawed and uh
it's
it's not hard at all actually it's very
simple um and so
in that sense i guess it's a secret but
if you just you know get off of yourself
and stop
leaning into it so hard you'll realize
that it's a lot easier than you think
that's a heck of a high stat i didn't
realize that that percentage was so high
so 50 to 99 people
don't even ask for the sale so they've
had a conversation with their prospect
it varies yeah it varies a little bit by
industry but it's
some industries as high as 90 where that
where a meeting will happen but nobody's
asking for commitment on either side
mad madness madness okay so
i want to jump straight into this i mean
before perhaps we we lead up to it
um maybe we should talk talk about on
your side of things because on this show
we've
covered all metal i say or many
different angles of the sales process
whether that's
cold calling whether that's generating
inbound opportunities whether that's
discovery calls
presentations and of course now we're
leaning towards the end of that sales
cycle and asking for the business
how in your opinion james how much
weight is there on actually asking for
the business itself
well it is very important um because if
you you can go through all the rest of
the process
if you can't get it over the finish line
you won't you know you actually get a
sale at all and so it's
arguably the most important step but but
let me just let me frame that a little
bit because i had a client ask me this
they said
they said hey what is the single best
thing i can do to improve sales
and you would think as an author of a
bestselling book on closing my answer
would be closing but
the answer the truth is it's not that
the single best thing
that any business can do to improve
sales is to sell to only ideal clients
right and the re and the reason for that
is that that's at the top of the funnel
and so if i if i put in garbage at the
top it doesn't even matter you could
execute the rest of your process
completely flawlessly but if you're
selling to the wrong person who actually
can't buy it'll all fall on deaf ears so
with that little caveat and i know this
this uh this session is not about
targeting
but really that is the single most
effective like that's what the data
shows
if you if you only sell to ideal clients
you'll improve everything else in your
sales process
hey i appreciate the honesty um and
that is that is the ideal situation
right to be selling only to your ideal
customers
um unfortunately i know i've seen the
front end of it that it doesn't always
work out that way with with how things
go
but certainly that's that's what we want
to be gearing towards
um so let's let's jump into it i mean
james tell us a bit more about what the
perfect close is and what it really
involves and how we can put it into
action
sure well so for anybody that's nervous
right and most people when they hear the
title the perfect clothes which is maybe
maybe not the best title to have chosen
is they think it's some kind of
manipulative you know phrase or thing
that you're gonna say
that's going to you know automatically
persuade people to buy but it's really
not that
um and so uh maybe it's really just two
questions
it's zero pressure and it's 95 effective
and so when people hear that last part
it sounds too good to be true but let me
just give you a little data on that
there is a company out there called
gong.io
and what they are is they do their call
analytics company they analyze
call centers and calls and they actually
ask this question they said what is the
single best closing approach that there
is and they analyzed over a million
calls and they determined that the
perfect close which is the one we're
going to share with your audience right
now
is hands down the best closing approach
that there is
and that the top performers are actually
using it about three times per hour per
hour
which should tell you that it doesn't
get old the more you use it so
and and to contrast that with all the i
have every book on closing you can think
of
and there's all they all have names and
they all have special setups and
sometimes and most of them are very
manipulative
and and you have to know the exact right
time and the perfect clothes isn't like
that
you don't have to know the right timing
of it you don't have to
it's so facilitative and open that it
leaves you and the customer on
a much emotionally much higher ground
and so that's one of the things that
makes it perfect i
i didn't call it perfect by the way one
of my students called it that
so um but if we want to jump into it
there's just two questions
uh there's actually five variations but
we'll share at least the basic variation
then we'll see how much time we have to
go through the other stuff
maybe before we actually share the
questions it might be it might make
sense to say this
before you go into any sales encounter
you might want to give a little thought
to what you want the outcome to be
right what do you want to happen as a
result
of this interaction right and the iraq
i'm going to phrase called in advance
and what he learned
in his uh neil rackham by the way if you
don't know who he is uh he's from the uk
and uh he is really the patron saint of
scientific selling he
conducted the largest face-to-face cell
study ever conducted involved over 35
uh face-to-face sales interactions we
learned a lot of stuff about selling
but one of the things that he learned is
that nine out of 10 sales interactions
don't end with a win or lose
that's actually not what happens what
happens in nine out of ten sales
interactions is we either get what he
called in advance
where the cell moves forward in a little
way okay so some progress is made
or what he called a continuation and a
continuation is a situation where
the sale is not dead but it didn't go
anywhere either so it's just kind of
stagnant and sitting there and i know a
lot of sales professionals have a
pipeline that's full of these deals that
are
in continuation mode right so anyway
that's what he learned that's what
happened so
um when i say that it's 95 effective
what i mean is
you're going to get an advance where our
cell moves forward in a little way or
you'll
actually close it okay and so um with
that backdrop what we want to have
before we go into any meeting is we want
to have an ideal advance
what's the best possible outcome that we
could you know achieve and then we want
to
have a couple of backup plans right a
couple of options just in case our ideal
advance proves unrealistic
for some reason and with that you are
ready
to execute the perfect close okay so
basically the first question is going to
be some variation of
does it make sense for us to x okay i'll
say it again for your audience
does it make sense for us to x where x
is your ideal advance okay so let's just
imagine that i'm doing consulting for
you and i'm going to do an assessment
i might say you know does it make sense
for us to schedule an assessment for you
to see what our best options are
okay and that in that example the
assessment is the x right
now if you think about it there's only
two things you can say you're gonna say
yes right or you're gonna say no if you
say yes awesome right we just got our
advance and we only had to ask one of
the two questions
okay if you say no then the kindergarten
version is just to throw the ball back
to
the the customer and just ask them say
okay well what do you think is a good
next step then
okay or some variation of that and what
i can tell you is that and it sounds so
simple but what will happen
is 90 of the time the customer will
offer a very logical next step for where
they're at
in their buying process it's when we
start to push them faster than they're
ready for
that's when it starts to feel like
manipulation to them but doing it this
way with these two questions it's
completely facilitative it's
non-confrontational
and um that you haven't really asked
them to
commit to anything and that's a very
subtle difference okay so um
when people first learn that they're
worried about well what if
it says no okay that's what they're
worried about right i can tell you
and so think about this for a second
though what have they really said no to
did they say no i'm not going to take
your course to action
huh because we didn't ask them to take a
course action
did they say no i will not you know i'm
not going to buy your thing no because
we didn't ask him to buy anything all we
asked
is did it make sense and so at its roots
the perfect quote is actually a timing
question okay so if it makes you feel
more comfortable you could say hey is
the timing right for us
to x and that'll work exactly the same
way so if you like that better go ahead
and use that
right the point is go ahead before we
get to that james so
you talked about going back a bit
mentioning neil rackham
and mentioning advances at each stage so
before we talk about just closing deals
is this something we can perhaps use
earlier on in our sales process so
perhaps when we're having initial
conversations
be that discovery calls we've just
generated an appointment
so rather than actually going using this
right at the end of the sales process
where we think the deal's nearly
over the line and we're saying doesn't
make sense to move ahead and move
forward
sign the contract whatever our end
result is if we're having an early stage
call
can we use it as in does it make sense
to book our second
call with the rest of your team perhaps
you're speaking to a marketing exec and
you need to get the marketing director
um the sales manager whoever else is
involved in the project doesn't make
sense to book our next call on this date
with the rest of the team you nailed it
that's exactly it so think about it
so in chapter eight of the book we
actually do a little bit of a brainstorm
because every sales is a little
different and so there's a lot of little
steps on the way to the big step right
the big final one
and so what we do in that session is for
your type of sale we work out hey what
are all the little baby steps
and then before you go to have your
meeting you can just look at this list
of things that you've already
brainstormed and you can say
you know all right i think that's
logical and this is logical and this is
probably the best thing that could
happen
and those are the going to be the three
that you've got prepared so that you can
use your ideal advance and then you'll
use one of the other alternatives in the
fallback which
i can we can share with your audience in
a second if you want there's another
trick i haven't shared this anyway but
it's called an agenda close and so in
the discovery process if you want you
can say
you can ask the customer you can say
well tell me what are you know how
what are the steps you're going to go
through to evaluate this solution right
how are you going to do it
and then they'll tell you all the steps
that they're going to make and then you
as a professional
pay attention because they might be
missing a couple of important steps like
they might not they might not have
thought to check references or they
might not have
thought to go on a site visit or
something and so you can
say oh well i noticed you you know is
this all something you wanted to do did
you want to check references before you
actually make your final decision
and so you can sort of coach them a
little bit on how to add their steps
but once they agree to that you have
essentially got all of your advances
specific to this one customer on a list
and then all you're doing after that
it's not even your list it's their list
then you're just going to facilitate
their walking through each of those
steps and that tells you
the advances that you're going to help
them you're just basically walking them
through their own buying process
i really like that i really like that
you're literally literally giving you
what they need
to see almost a checklist of what they
need on their end to get the deal done
and then if you hear things on your end
that typically your clients ask for so
like you said whether that's case
studies whether that's testimonials
whether that's other people to speak to
whether that's maybe learning a bit more
about your process what on-boarding
looks like what an ongoing relationship
looks like you can say
usually our clients want to know this um
and they might say that that'd be great
yeah and they'll insert it into their
process and then boom all you're doing
is
you know helping them through next steps
in this process that they've created so
it will never feel like pressure to them
because
you'll what you'll feel like is a
project manager actually to them
love it love it okay um so we mentioned
advances
we talked about um you mentioned james
and ideal advance
and then some of the backup advances so
is that like you said just
putting it back on them saying what does
make sense as a next step
or do we compile a list of secondary
outcomes third outcomes etc
yeah so uh it's really simple actually
so you've got your ideal thing you hope
that happened but in case that doesn't
happen you think okay well maybe
you know we could there's a couple other
steps that might be halfway steps okay
and and what you can use is some other
variations of the perfect clothes so
um an upgrade to the kindergarten
version that i just gave you is called
the suggestion
and you actually just used it you'd say
you know other clients at this stage
tend to do x
does it make sense for us to do x okay
and that's really important especially
if the thing that you sell is not
something that people buy a lot
because they're not they they might buy
i work in healthcare i.t
and sometimes the thing that we're
selling they might buy once in a
lifetime
right and so they really don't have a
good idea what next steps are so when
i'm saying hey does you know other
clients of this stage tend to do this
this makes sense for us to do that i'm
i'm facilitating i'm helping them
understand what logical next steps you
know
are appropriate but i'm still leading it
up to them right it's still open
and you can also use that suggestion in
the fallback so if i said hey does it
make sense for us to schedule an
assessment
and then you say no then i would say
well you know other clients at this
stage will sometimes do this other thing
does it make sense for us to do that and
that's how you use the fallbacks
that you prepared and that what is what
ensures that every time we have a
meeting
that we're either getting we're getting
progress each time or it's actually
closing
okay so some of this actually comes down
to not just what you ask but preparation
pre-meeting
so understanding you nailed it if
there's a secret to selling it's
probably in the preparation
got it man okay so this this technique
james you've claimed it's 95
effective um why is it and like you say
i completely agree that so many of the
closes
traditional closes that you hear typical
sales people say at the end of a
conversation
are just we're wary of them um
when they're saying like should we get
started should i send over the paperwork
you know the standard standard stuff we
used to hearing them
why does this work why is it not
manipulative like perhaps some of the
closing techniques we use for used to
sure well the root of it is that the
question itself is not an actual
commitment question
right if i say will you buy my stuff
okay
i'm asking you a yes or no a positive or
negative feeling any uh question and if
you say no to that man
our motion level will tank okay both
with you and the customer
but when i say does it make sense for us
to do this or if i say is the timing
right for us to do this
well they you haven't really asked for
any commitment at all
okay but they can clearly see the
direction you're headed right that's the
beauty of it
and but you haven't actually asked the
commitment yet and so it feels
regardless of their answer you're going
to be emotionally on much much higher
ground because all you're really doing
is facilitating but you're asking their
permission
if if this type particular step is now
appropriate for this time and because of
that
it ends up not having all the negative
baggage with a direct close
and it will keep you um what people will
actually see you as a trusted advisor
actually because you're really just
facilitating them through their own
buying process
yeah and i i think like you said it also
gives the
the client the or the potential customer
the feeling that they're in control
i guess yeah so there's another version
of this uh in fact speaking of control
so there's another variation uh the the
fallback you can fall back multiple
times like let's just say i you know i
said hey
this makes sense for us to do x you say
no i say all right you know other
clients sometimes do this y thing do you
want to do that
if they say no to that i can i could do
it again i could say well sometimes they
do this third thing
doesn't make sense for us to do that and
maybe this would be a good time to say
if i've given them two options
and then the final thing you say in the
fallback is you're just throwing back
that original question well all right
well what do you think is a good next
step then
and uh and usually like i've been on
hundreds of write-alongs i can tell you
of cases they will actually suggest a
logical next step for themselves okay
but if it turns out that they still
can't after i've suggested three things
and they still can't come up with
anything then that tells us something
about the quality
of the prospect now and so we might want
to put them in some kind of a passive
marketing mode but it's really not a
good investment of our time as
professionals because
you know so we kind of need that last
five percent to help us understand how
to manage our time right
well there's another version called the
add-on and the way the add-on works
is if i say hey does it make sense for
us to do x and you say yes i go great
you know sometimes clients at this stage
will also do y doesn't make sense to do
that
and so i'm adding on the other ones that
i had in my list
until i've reached the pace that the
client's ready to go okay and so if they
say yes to that i could say well
sometimes they also do z does it make
sense to do that
and then at the end of the add-on
regardless of whether you run out of
advances or whatever you're going to ask
the client something like this you're
going to say
well are there any other logical steps
we should be considering right now
okay and and that what that does is it
gives the client a
chance to share something that's logical
to them that maybe you didn't even think
about
okay and so again they're in control
really right you're facilitating with
questioning but basically they're in
control of what they want to do and i
will tell you a mind-blowing story i was
working with a group in um in arizona
and we were work we were demonstrating
to their i.t
team and we thought these are not the
decision makers we want to be we want to
mat we want to do a presentation to
their executive management team because
that's what we thought was going to make
the decision so i get in there
and we're all done i say all right does
it make sense for us to schedule a demo
for
you know your executive team so we can
get their feedback and input he goes yes
that's a great idea i'm like wow
i got my first advance right so i look
at my list i say well you know a lot of
clients at this stage will have us
um get our technical people together to
talk about the conversion
does it make sense for us to schedule
time for our tech people to talk he's
like yes my guys are really worried
about that so i'm like wow
cha-ching two for two right so i asked
him a thing i said i think i've got
everything i need here to create
like a preliminary proposal for you just
so you can feel for the scope of the
project does it make sense for me to put
together a
preliminary proposal he goes yes that'd
be super helpful i'm like wow i'm
totally spent right
so i asked him that last question i just
said hey well are there any other
logical steps we should be considering
and will you this what
this guy said will blow your mind he's
he looks around and kind of lowers his
voice
and he goes well is there any chance i
could get a copy of your standard
agreement because
our legal people can be kind of slow
and i'm of course on the outside i'm
cool as a cucumber i'm like well yes i'd
be happy to get your copy at the
standing but on the inside i'm like
yeah are you kidding of course i can get
you a contract right and here's the
thing
is we didn't we didn't think we were
presenting to the right people
but because we used this method we were
able to pace it at exactly the rate
that the client is ready to go and
that's what made it work right
so with the fallback you can slow it
down and with the add-on you can speed
it up
at whatever pace the client's ready to
go that's the whole point right it's
when we try to go faster than they're
ready for
that's when it starts to feel like
manipulation and you don't want to go
there
because as soon as the client feels
manipulated they will withhold
information from you
and then the whole selling process is
going to become um uh
it will be dysfunctional basically
because they they don't trust you
anymore
right they're worried that you're going
to try to pressure them and any
information that you give them is going
to be used against them
i think and and james correct me if i'm
wrong here but does it work
so well also because it's conversational
absolutely
and you don't have to memorize anything
you don't have to worry you have to
worry about the timing of it either
because it is a timing question right so
you don't have to oh
lord is this the right moment for me to
ask the closing question i mean i can't
tell
by the sweat running off their head if
this is the right thing to ask right i
mean i've read all these setups and
things like that and
it's really you don't have to worry
about any of that stuff you don't have
to worry about it all i would just say
is maybe from an agenda perspective
if you created an agenda for your for
your uh meeting i would just put action
items or next steps somewhere at the
bottom
and then what that will do is create a
very natural flow as you go through your
agenda to
ask your you know does it make sense
question towards the end
yeah um because if you're just following
the normal agenda so if you have a hard
time knowing when
i would just create an agenda before you
go they don't have to be complicated
they can be half a page
right and then you're just walking them
through the list and then you ask your
question when it comes time to the next
steps
yeah so many good points raised there
james um the first one being able to
qualify
out prospects so when you're actually
asking them does it make sense to to
move ahead or does it make sense to
involve
other decision makers in the pres
process and if if they can't
even when you flip that back to them so
say that they're saying no to you in
terms of your clothes and then you're
saying what does make sense is the next
step
or what do you recommend as a next step
and they're not really giving you
answers or they're unsure and they're
giving you wishy-washy responses
i guess it's quite a good way to filter
out how serious they are about actually
doing business with you
and then move on to the next qualified
prospect right yeah it's what kind of
size is the thing we said at the very
beginning which is the single best thing
you can do is sell to only ideal clients
but in the real world
we don't always get that right and so
judging how they respond to these very
facilitative non-confrontational
questions
tells us about the quality and the
urgency that this client has and if
they're not really
willing to exercise any you know action
or um
or energy towards uh you know what we're
talking about right now then it must not
be very important for them
and that tells us that it's going to be
a time sink um from our a sales and
as a sales professional all we have is
our time that's it we can we convert
time into money right
and so um the pareto principle says that
20 of those accounts are going to work
are actually going to suck up 80 percent
of your time
so it's really important that the 20
you're working are really good and high
qualified prospects
and this is one way of figuring that out
and you might even be able to do that on
your discovery call where you haven't
gone on site you haven't
invested a lot of time yet gotcha gotcha
and is there ever a time where we can
use it too much as in can we keep saying
and then eventually a prospect might
clock onto it have we got to be
strategic and how we place it into our
conversations
there's only one time where i'd say
that's true and that's in the fallback
so if if you say hey does it make sense
for us to do a and they say
uh no and then you fall back to say hey
does it make all right well other
clients at this stage sometimes do b
doesn't make sense for us to do that and
you can fall back even a c
right i would don't do it more than
twice my observation is that once you've
done it more than twice it starts to
look really self-serving
like you're trying to push right and so
just um
that would be the only time i would say
otherwise what the data shows from
gong.io is that you really can't use it
too much
i mean there are different variations so
i want you to people should make it
natural and
say it the way they say uh things but
but be sure you understand what the
question is it's a timing question it's
not a
a commitment question so when you're
rephrasing it don't accidentally
do what one of my sales guys did and and
basically reworded it and and the way he
reworded it turned it into a commitment
question and said will you do this
is essentially what he did and um what
he thought he was doing he thought he
was
he was compressing two questions into
one really efficient question but
what he did is he changed the total
nature of the question he removed the
timing aspect out of it which ruined it
yeah and i can genuinely vouch for the
the clothes myself because i started
using it when i as i mentioned
pre-record i heard you on a podcast a
while back james
i've actually started using myself so if
i'm trying to book a meeting or try and
book a next step i'm typically saying
look does it make sense to speak again
this time next week or does it make
sense to involve the rest of the team
and so far i haven't really had any
pushback or even if they say
just like you mentioned if they say they
say well that's not going to be a great
time for us and i'm saying
well when when is when does make sense
i've not today i've not had a pushback
as in someone's caught me out or
someone's
said why are you asking me this there's
been no no real rebuttal
it just does seem to work as a smooth
process so far i mean i'll keep you in
the loop if anyone if anyone does
that and i have i have a whole email
directory full of it works it works oh
my gosh this works right they can't
believe how simple it is
and you don't have to do any you know
prepping or memorizing crazy
you know things to set up your clothes
it's just a very simple thing that you
can apply over and over again
um in all of the different models uh or
you know different sales opportunities
that you have and so
your experience is my experience is it
works pretty much all the time i mean
if it doesn't work then it's telling us
something about the quality now where
maybe we should
talk is we should set our expectations
what people probably
hope for when they see a thing that says
perfect close is that
i can um i can use this magic phrase
to take a unqualified prospect and and
suddenly turn him into a closed
qualified prospect and that won't happen
okay if i give if i give you a terrible
prospect
and you use the perfect clothes on it it
doesn't matter
if if they're a bad prospect and this is
not a good solution for them it's not
going to magically convert them so don't
expect that
but what it will do is if you have good
qualified prospects we talked about at
the beginning
you'll end up with a huge pipeline that
is all moving slowly
forward at their own pace until you end
up getting a lot of business and you'll
you'll be closing
it's the industry average for close
ratios is between 20 and 22
or so right so but i i have many clients
that have
sales people that are closing eighty
percent of their clients
right now their sales cycles vary
because it just depends on what you're
selling and
what the normal process is but can you
imagine closing at eighty percent
everything that you're working
you're what would that do to your income
i mean if you're around the 20
level and you're closing at 80 that's
like forexing your income and it can do
that
i've actually had one client where it
deny next their uh their income
so um it's all very doable but uh your
expectations of hey there's a magic
thing i can say that will
make them buy my stuff right now that's
not what this is yeah
yeah and i'd completely agree at the end
of the day if you're gonna put
rubbish if you're gonna put nonsense
into your sales funnel of
prospects that aren't that qualified
that aren't a great fit then you can't
expect
awesome insane magical results or 10x of
yourself
it's just not going to happen right but
these these small things i think even
the fact that this can qualify prospects
pretty fast
and quite often when you do ask for
those next commitment levels you're
soon going to shake out any any weeds in
the pipeline you're soon going to
determine if this is a genuine prospect
who wants to
who generally wants your help or has a
problem you can solve or if it's just
someone trying their luck
so yeah i mean that's that's so good in
terms of the
things that we've covered james in terms
of ideal advances back at
backup advances um why it works is there
any other points that we should take in
consideration before we go out hit the
phones or hit the zoom calls and try and
try and start working this into our
general approach yeah so i would just
say this is
um yeah selling is serving okay and so a
lot of people have the wrong perception
about what it is they think it's about
persuasion or they think it's about
manipulation or something but selling is
really
about serving and um if you think about
it
the reason the customer's talking to you
is because they're trying to achieve a
goal but they they can't do it on their
own
so they're expecting you to be a coach
and a facilitator to help them get their
goal that's what your job is right so
it's really more about leadership than
it is about
you know persuasion and which one of us
right it's at the beginning of the year
a lot of people have fitness goals this
time of year
which one of us wouldn't like to have a
coach that would help us move to at our
own pace to help us achieve our own
fitness goal well we all would right
well that's what that's what the
customer's expecting from you so that's
my
challenge uh to the sales professional
out there in the world
is that we can really do a lot better
job of facilitating about teaching about
coaching our clients and helping them
achieve their goals and when you do that
oh my goodness life becomes so much
easier the first thing is that it's
actually way more successful so you're
gonna actually sell more
by just helping them get what they're
trying to get right don't lean into it
it's don't think about you think about
them
and then and secondly um you'll be so
much more happy
the the process of selling this way is
it puts you in this zen-like state where
you're just enjoying every minute of it
and so if you're feeling any kind of
pressure
or anything like that that that uh i
gotta get this closed because i got to
make quota
or whatever all of that will disappear
and your success level will go through
the roof so it's this beautiful
um sweet spot between those two things
where you're actually
genuinely helping customers and you're
actually more successful yourself and it
doesn't
yeah and the whole um process is
enjoyable for you
and it's just the best place you can be
and so just upgrading your
your closing process just to this simple
thing
it's very liberating for a lot of folks
yeah and i've been there james i've been
in the boiler room i've been selling
products over the phone ramming them
down people's throats and years gone by
where it's just
you did it but i just didn't feel great
that's why i had to get out of it that's
why i got into digital marketing sales
something i'm
more passionate what i generally enjoy
and where i can really help people and
grow their business and
i've been there where you've kind of
selling things that you're just going
for the clothes rather than
trying to offer a product or service
that's genuinely helpful
and like you say when you start using
these kind of strategies that are
actually
putting the customer in control um and
it's almost as if
the customers making the decision
themselves so rather than trying to
force them push them to do it
that you're actually asking them look
does it actually make sense to do this
and
they feel like they have full control i
feel yes and it's better
they want that they want that so there's
a i mean we could talk about more about
the science about why it works but the
three
the thing is is when you're working with
a customer in the first few minutes
they are judging two things they're
judging warmth and confidence
okay and warmth is basically they're
looking for your intent and what they do
in the first few seconds literally is
they look at it
they say what is this person's intention
is this person trying to help me or hurt
me
okay and then the second thing they
gauge is what's their competence
how capable are they are they at helping
me or hurting me
and the mistake that most salespeople
make really a large share of them is
they think if they can win the
competence
battle i am the best at doing this they
think if they can win that battle they
will win
but the truth is what the data shows
hands down is that warmth
and intent is measured heavier and
earlier
in the process than competency and so
they're playing to the competency which
is fine you need to be competent for
sure right you still want to be the best
but you they need to understand that
your intention is to help them in
whatever way is
appropriate and if they detect at some
point
that your intentions are off then in
most cases the show's off
right that's when they start holding
withholding information and that's when
the
sales process starts becoming
dysfunctional so intent in this case
matters more than technique does because
um
it's it's that person's trust in us that
allows us to demonstrate our competence
so um i mean there's that's a little
more science behind why the whole yeah
that could of course be a whole other
episode but just to put across that
intent is that
more in the way of uh the tone of our
voice how we're
our hand movements how we're coming
across the prospects or is that there is
a ton of things that is a really great
question so all of chapter three is
designed
around that in the book but i will just
say there's
you've got something called micro
expressions and these are
these are facial expressions that
actually are 125th of a second or so
they're super
fast most people cannot detect them and
discern them
and so people just when they react with
a person they say oh i have this feeling
about this person but what's really
happening is they're reacting to these
micro expressions
so that's a non-verbal way that people
communicate there's another thing
that's called uh mirror neurons and
that's a short version
without giving you a whole science uh
you know thing on that is
um it's sympathy it's why when you go to
a movie and you you can relate to the
characters in the movie
and you cry because you the person in
the show is sad right that's
mirror neurons working and that's a very
fascinating area of science that's
non-verbal communication between two
people
and the last is called uh paralanguage
and paralanguage is the tonality in your
voice they can like if you're
if your significant other if you ask her
how she's doing and she says
fine you can tell by the way they said
find that they're really not fine
right yeah so um yeah exactly so these
three things
are three areas where we're
communicating our intent
unintentionally okay and so when you
first share this with sales
professionals what they the immediate
thing that they go for is they go
well how do i make sure that i'm
communicating you know the right intent
and i'm like you can't that's the answer
the answer is you can't the only real
answer and there's something sublimely
divine about what i'm about to share
with you is that the only way to really
demonstrate that you
have good intent is to actually have
good intent
okay and so there's a couple things you
can do before you go into any meeting
to think about hey get off yourself get
off your product and just think how can
i best serve this person
if you go in with that kind of an
attitude what will happen is all these
non-verbal
signals that you're giving off will all
be sending the right signal and that
person will recognize that you're
actually just trying to help
but when you go in thinking about how
you can get their money
well i'll give you an example i had a uh
a customer call me one time
and said don't send that sales guy back
here again so he he got mad at one of my
sales guys
and he goes that guy has commission
breath okay
and that word just captures exactly what
we're talking about is he could tell
that my sales guy was not interested in
helping him genuinely he was just
helping
trying to get money he was just trying
to get a sale right and so the guy said
hey don't ever bring him back here again
i don't want to see that guy and so
that's the point i was trying to make is
that
your intent matters more than technique
does and so
maybe another great principle here is
that becoming a better person
will actually make you a better sales
person and that's because of the how
important trust is in the sale right
other kind of industries
if your brain surgeon maybe you know
competency is really more important than
your you know your bedside manner but
when it comes to selling
our trust is far far more important
because it's rated above the competency
yeah love that love that completely
agree in your opinion james
to you mentioned that being genuine um
rather than just
having the commission breath pushing for
for a deal just because you
want the commission check or you want to
hit a certain target do you feel that
as a as a business owner as a sales
professional we have to be genuinely
passionate about
how our product helps people the product
itself or the products outcomes
otherwise we're not going to be able to
hit our full potential 100
and i would actually put most of that
focus on the outcomes that the client
receives by using the product
your product is only a vehicle to help
them get the result that they're doing
right that they're
they're aiming for and so that's where
our focus should be
and so instead of thinking about your
product and all the features and all the
bells and whistles and all that like
it's super common in the sas industry
right to go straight to the demo okay
but it
how you know what the target is that
you're supposed to hit in the demo if
you haven't learned in discovery what
the customer's goals are
right and so it's really important for
us to step back and just listen
and try to understand what the customer
is trying to do and once you've done
that then you'll know exactly what the
bullseye is and you'll find that you
actually could do
your normal demo in half the time or
less
because they're only really trying to do
a couple of really you know
simple things and you don't need to show
them all everything in fact
when you show them more of what your
software your solution does than the
customer asks for it actually
in their brains it makes it look more
complex to them than it needs to be
so you're hurting yourself when you go
past the actual measure of what they're
trying to do
right just solve exactly what they're
trying to you know trying to solve
and then stop and if they want to give
you more they will give you more
but you if you oversell it what ends up
happening is your solution starts to
look complex
and like oh wow and this is going to
require a lot of change and a lot of
learning and i don't know if i want that
right and so the the only way to solve
that problem is just to listen
during the discovery process and
understand exactly what they're going
for and there is in
an art to that like we could spend a
whole another session on how do i
conduct a
discovery that allows me to identify
what those two key issues are because in
most
cases there's only two really weighty
key issues they might give you six
right but there's going to be two of
those that are carrying all the weight
and so you need to know what those are
before you start
saying oh i can do that i can do that
because if you ask them
they might the sixth one that they give
you might be the one that's carrying all
the weight and so you have to be really
smart
about how you uh conduct your discovery
and don't jump into selling before you
understand what the bullseye is yeah
completely agree listening is definitely
a skill that's hugely undervalued and i
can say for sure i used to be terrible
at it especially in my younger days of
sales and business
i used to want to rush through my offer
quickly tell my prospects how great how
amazing my product how amazing my
service was
when uh really you need to let you say
conducted discovery understand
where they're trying to get to what
their issues are if your product's even
a good match or a good fit
to help them out before you get to that
good stuff whether it's a demonstration
proposal whatever that next step may be
look james really really enjoyed this
man um one final question if i may
for anyone that's whizzed through this
this full podcast episode and thought
yes this all sounds really good this all
sounds great
but i still don't really like like
asking people to do stuff how
what would your advice be for them james
from people that don't really
like asking for the clay you're in sales
part of your job is to ask people to do
so
i would just say this understand that
selling is serving if you look at what
sales call reluctance
is it can be chased down to about four
or five different things but
probably one of the biggest things is
that you may not be emotionally
and from your value side congruent with
what you're selling
and if you do not believe in your
product that it's actually helping and
serving other people when they get the
full benefit of it
then you need to get away and get into
an industry where you can believe in the
product because you are telegraphing
all of that nonverbal um non-trust in
your own solution
in when you're in your conversations
with clients you'll be telegraphing it
and so just make sure that the thing
that you are selling is something you
can be passionate about maybe you own
that same thing or maybe you've used it
and you've seen the results
and if you're a manager listening to
this here's what my advice is
have a have a a day where you're having
a sales meeting and then have one of
your happy customers come in and just
explain
to your team exactly why it is that they
love the solution
and explain how they use it and how it
made a difference in them that will make
you could literally as the manager you
could do that same presentation yourself
but your team will not believe it in the
same way as when you bring a client in
and they speak right from their heart
about how it does that
that will change their understanding of
how it really does make a difference
but that's that is a fundamental thing
is if you don't believe in the product
you're going to be telegraphing it all
over the place so it's really important
for us and all of our teams to make sure
that we're 100 sold on the solution and
if you're not
go go pick an industry where you can be
passionate about the solution
right where you know that when a
customer adopts it it makes a difference
in people's lives because that
that matters right and and so when you
understand that
i'm in the healthcare space and what i
can tell you is that
um is we we end up in situations all the
time
where some kind of miracle um
uh a drug or a technique or procedure is
is discovered
and it helps save someone's life well
and but
what most people don't realize is that
there's sales involved in all of those
all of those there's a selling part of
it because those procedures require
you know uh all kinds of things that
cost money that insurance companies have
to pay for and they have to get
on schedules and things like that and so
selling it takes place but
is anybody sad that a sales person was
involved that you know
developed a biodegradable tracheal
splint that saved somebody's life
well no we're grateful that that sale
happened because lives were saved
because of that okay
well just think about your what you're
selling is the same
way right you're helping a person
achieve a goal avert a problem or
you know get away from a crisis of some
kind one of those three things
and so it you should it not only should
you not
experience any reticence or resistance
it actually should be inherently
motivating on its own in the same way
that you would love to help somebody
across the street if they're struggling
to get across the street that you would
do that
right in the same way you're trying to
help a customer actually achieve their
goal you're serving them
and these medical examples that i'm
talking about they
they reveal what selling really is which
is serving right it's when we get too
far apart from that we start to think
about what we want what we're going to
get out of it or the money that we're
going to get
and that's when it becomes dysfunctional
and i i'll acknowledge by the way
that it is hard sometimes but when you
remember that selling a serving is
100 noble and it is 100 satisfying when
we do that and that
is motivating in its own right james
love all of those examples and love the
passion that shines through yourself
when when you're you're selling it to me
and um just just like say being being
genuine about what you offer i love the
example of
getting in a happy customer so they can
literally tell you why
they they like your product why they
like your service they can even give you
some of the content that you can use
yourself you can literally take the
words out of your mouth which
out of their mouths which we've talked
about on previous episodes in terms of
being able to use that in your marketing
material
and in your sales pitch on your website
and all your collateral so yeah i've
just thoroughly enjoyed it james i
really want to thank you for coming on
and we'll definitely have to get you
back in
on a future episode uh if you're up for
it sir absolutely
my pleasure it was great being on i
thank you for inviting me
cheers dude if anyone out wants to learn
more about yourself if anyone wants to
connect with you
or do some business with you james what
is the best way to get in touch please
sure the website is definitely the best
it's puremeure.com
p-u-r-e-m-u-i-r-dot-com
and um it actually everything literally
everything that we've talked about i
used to have this huge page that had
like about a dozen or
16 different downloads they're all now
in one big super bundle so if somebody
wants to
literally download pretty much all the
content that we've talked about today
they can get all of that for free just
off the website just go to the resources
page
oh there's a download you get one big
file has all this stuff in it
awesome man good stuff james well thank
you once again
and um we'll catch you again soon if you
enjoyed the show
be sure to hit subscribe wherever the
heck you get your podcast it's business
growth show
and with that we'll catch you again on
the next episode